So we want to run our application on the Android simulator
and for that, you have to visit developer.android.com/studio/index.html or simply
search for Android Studio.
That's the development environment for Android
and it comes with all the tools you need to run Android apps on a simulator or a real device.
On this page once you visited it, you can download Android Studio,
now I'm on a Mac here but you will see the same link on Windows
and the steps are the same,
it will also work on Windows unlike Xcode which we'll cover later which only works on a Mac.
So there, you have to agree to these terms and conditions and then download Android Studio for your operating
system.
Now I just started the download and this will take a while,
I'll be back once it finish to walk through the installer and then show you what else you need to
do to run your application on an Android simulator. So the download finished, I'll now execute this to start
the installer
and there, the steps will simply vary depending on where you are running this, on Mac OS you simply
need to drag Android Studio into the applications folder, on Windows,
you'll walk through some steps, by the end you will have Android Studio installed,
that's the core thing
so let's now start it.
So I finished the installation,
now I started Android Studio for the first time when I get this wizard, the set up wizard,
you might not get this if you already have it installed,
now there I'll simply pick custom to see what I can set up for the installation, I will use this Darcula theme
to get this dark look next.
Now here that's important,
I'll choose Android SDK here, it actually added this automatically and Android virtual device which
is the simulator, so make sure these are installed,
I will also show you how to access this in the readily configured Android Studio in a second.
So basically I got all of that checked and will hit next here,
I'll leave the emulator settings to default, continue here and click finish and now it will download
more components and set up Android Studio according to this set up,
I'll be back once this finished.
So the installation finished for me
and with that, we can now open Android Studio.
Now actually we can choose open an existing Android Studio project here because even though we haven't
created one, well we kind of did create one, simply navigate into this create native app project we created
and there, remember this Android folder, open it,
this is your Android project, so you can simply open this folder here as an Android Studio project.
Because this is a normal Android project which you could know also build and edit through Android Studio
though we won't do that and you shouldn't really do that because it's easy to mess up things there, you
will sometimes have to go in there and edit some things when you add third party libraries
but I will walk you through that
but one reason why I wanted to open it is because I want to manage my SDK version,
so the Android version for which we can build
and I also want to show you how to run a simulator. Now in Android Studio, you can always go to tools
and there you should find Android,
now if you don't find the Android option here as I do, you might have this error down here, this gradle
Android error, that it can't find the SDK version for your build target, you can then click this link to
install the missing platforms,
accept this license agreement and in this case, it installs Android SDK platform 23,
it's not the latest one but the latest one supported by this react native distribution here. So I'll
simply wait for this to finish,
thereafter we'll see that it also misses the build tools,
so also click this and you might not get all these errors here,
that really depends on the version of react
native you are using
and the point of time you're installing it,
the latest Android SDK which was used by default and so on. Now with all that it should do something,
here at the bottom you should see that gradle builds your project
and once all of that is done, you should see Android under your tools window here.
Now there are two important things,
let's start with the SDK manager,
we basically just installed the SDK version we need
but make sure that here you install all the versions you need,
typically
that's the latest one
but then you also got an error, we got an error here.
So we also were prompted to install SDK version 23 and for you, these versiosn might differ, if you basically
run into issues with running and building your app for Android, try out different versions,
these are the versions supported by react native then, this by the way does not mean that you can't run
it on devices with a later version.
So that's the SDK version we built for, the next thing I want to do is under Android, tools Android, open
the AVD manager, the Android virtual device manager, there you can launch a simulator,
I already got one by default,
you can also create a new virtual device, pick from some presets, I'll use a pixel device, the Android pixel
phone which is emulated,
click next and you should be able to leave all the settings as they are
so I will leave it as this, use the latest API version which proves that the app also runs there and leave
everything as it is here and click Finish.
Now with that, we get this available and with this play button on the right here,
we can now launch this virtual device and this will now bring up this simulator which looks like an
Android phone and which allows us to basically run our application on it as we could on a real Android
device.
Side note, we'll also run it on the real device in a second
but for now, let's stick to the simulator.
Let's wait for this to boot up and once this did finish booting, you can go back to your react native
project and in the terminal there, run npm run Android.
What this will do is it will now build your project for Android, here it
throws me an error that no java runtime is available, you probably do have that
but in case you don't, make sure to install Java that's required because Android runs on Java and for the build
process, we need Java.
Once you got that installed, you can rerun the command and this time, it should be able to build your Android
app and what it will do here is it really compiles it to Android code.
That's important to understand, it really compiles your application to Android code and it does this by
translating all these UI components like view and text to their Android equivalents and your javascript
code as mentioned in the first course module runs in some tiny separate thread simply spun up by some
other Android code created by react native
because always keep in mind, react native is managing your entire project.
So it's taking care that all these things run there
but in the end it gives you an Android app which really uses native Android code.
So with that, we got all of that set up,
it launches an extra terminal or a command prompt window which you should keep running,
this is essentially used for live reloading of your app, some convenience feature which makes sure
that you don't have to rebuild your app whenever you change something but that this happens automatically
and that it ships a new version to your simulator automatically.
But here you can see, it doesn't really run on my simulator
and this might be different for you,
for me it doesn't run because this adb command which stands for Android
debug breach wasn't found.
Now this should be available
once you installed the Android SDK build tools but sometimes it's not
added to your global path,
so the command is not known
even though you installed the SDK build tools. Now attached to this video, you'll find a file where
I will describe how to fix this on Mac and windows. On Mac,
you can simply copy in this command which you find in the attached file
to add something to your global path variable,
just make sure to insert your username here
and once you did so, you can run adb to see if this works, shouldn't give you an error anymore.
So if you now repeat npm run Android, it should actually be able to not only build the project
but also to launch it on your simulator.
So there let's wait for this to finish,
if you see it starts in a tab and it starts our app.
Now the first time this starts, this can take quite some time,
on the left here it's a bit small but you can see that there, it's building this project and thereafter
here, we see our application run on a real simulator.
So these were quite some steps but depending on which set up you already had, this might have been less
work for you.
With that, we get it running on the Android simulator,
now if that's all you want, you can skip the next videos and we go right back into the code and start
working on that, dive deeper into components and so on. Before we do that in the next videos,
I will show you how to run this on a real Android device and then how to run it on an Xcode simulator
and a real iPhone.
So let's move on to this in the next lecture.